Ops Challenge: Uptime Sensor Tool Part 2 of 2
Overview
Oftentimes, security operations and general systems administration duties overlap. One such example is the need to monitor events taking place on infrastructure throughout the day.

Today you will finish writing an uptime sensor tool that checks systems are responding by adding a feature that notifies you of interesting status changes.

Resources
How to Easily Automate Emails with Python
Requirements
In Python, add the below features to your uptime sensor tool.

The script must:

Ask the user for an email address and password to use for sending notifications.
Send an email to the administrator if a host status changes (from “up” to “down” or “down” to “up”).
Clearly indicate in the message which host status changed, the status before and after, and a timestamp of the event.
Important Notes

DO NOT commit your email password in plain text within your script to GitHub as this easily becomes public.
Create a new “burner” account for this exercise. Do not use an existing email account.
Stretch Goals (Optional Objectives)
In Python, add the below features to your uptime sensor tool.

Append all status changes to an event log. Each event must include a timestamp, event code, any host IP addresses involved, and a human readable description.
Check for BURNER_EMAIL_ADDRESS and BURNER_EMAIL_PASSWORD environment variables (eg: loaded from .profile). If found, the script skips requesting credentials via user input.
Alternatively, send the notification email from a cloud mailer service (like Mailgun, or AWS SES), instead of SMTP through your burner address.
Submission
When you are ready to submit your script for grading, copy your script to a new file in your public Github repository. Name the file according to your course code and assignment, e.g. ops-401d1: Challenge 01.
Copy the URL to your GitHub file and paste below as your submission. Add a comment in your Canvas assignment which includes the following:
A question within the context of today’s lab assignment
An observation about the lab assignment, or related ‘Ah-hah!’ moment
How long you spent working on this assignment
© Code Fellows 2024